
 
 Create the following Custom Objects along with the details as mentioned below: 
 
EMPLOYEE 
     
 
Sr. No. Field Name Field Type Description 
1 Employee ID Auto Number EMP-{000000} 
2 First Name Text Mandatory 
3 Last Name Text(255) Mandatory 
4 Full Name Formula (Text) Computed from First Name and Last Name fields 
5 Date of Birth Date Mandatory 
6 Age Formula (Number) Compute the Age based on entered DOB 
7 Address Text (100)   
8 Street Text (100)   
9 City Picklist 
(Hyderabad, Guntur, Bhopal, Surat, Gandhi Nagar, Mumbai, 
Pune) 
Picklist dependent on State i.e. if Maharashtra is selected as 
the State only Mumbai and Pune show up in the City picklist 
10 Zip Text(6) Mandatory 
11 State Picklist Values: (AP, MP, Maharashtra, Gujarat) – Mandatory 
12 Education Picklist BE, ME, B Tech., MCA, BCA, B Sc. 
13 Annual CTC Number (10, 2)   
14 Salary Credited Till Date Roll Up Summary SUM(Gross Salary) 
15 Is Active Checkbox Default: Checked 
16 Status Formula (Text) 
Provide the following color coding depending upon the status 
of the Employee 
Green  – Employee is active 
Yellow – Employee is active but on Notice Period 
Red  – Employee is inactive 
(Hint: Use “/img/samles/color_red.gif” and IMAGE function) 
17 Is on Notice Period Checkbox Default – TRUE 
18 Date of Joining Date Required 
19 Last Working Day  Formula (Date) Calculated as Resignation Date + 60 days 
20 Manager Lookup (Employee)   
21 Resignation Date Date Enter the date if  Notice Period checked to true 
22 Department Lookup 
(Department) 


DEPARTMENT 
     
 
Sr. No. Field Name Field Type Description 
1 Department ID Auto Number DEP-{000000} 
2 Department Name Text(80)   
3 Description Text Area   
  

  
 
   
SALARY DETAILS 
     
 
 Sr. No. Field Name Field Type Description  
 1 Salary ID Auto Number Format: SAL-{000000}  
 2 Basic Number(10, 2) Mandatory  
 3 HRA Number(10, 2) Mandatory  
 4 Special Allowance Number(10, 2) Mandatory  
 5 PF Deduction Number(10, 2) Mandatory  
 5 Total Earnings Formula (Number) Basic + HRA + Special Allowance  
 6 Gross Salary Formula (Number) Total Earnings - PF  
 7 Salary Credit Date Date Mandatory  
 8 Bank Account Number Text (25) Mandatory  
 9 Bank Details Text (100) Mandatory  
 10 Mode of Payment Picklist RTGS, NEFT, Cheque, Cash  
 11 Credited To Master-Detail(Employee) 
  
 
 
 
 
 Create Custom Tabs for the following Objects: 
 - Department 
 - Employee 
 
 Create a Related List for Salary Details which would be shown on the detail page of an Employee. 
Following columns should be shown on the Related List: 
 - Salary ID 
 - Total Earnings 
 - Gross Salary 
 - Salary Credit Date 
 - Bank Account Number 
 - Mode of Payment 
 - Bank Details 
 
- Create a Custom Application named “Payroll System” having the following Tabs – Employee and 
Department. The Landing tab for the App should be Employee. Provide an appropriate logo for the App. 

Customize the Page layout for Employee to have the following  
a. Organize the fields and group them into the following sections – Employee Details, 
Address Details, Salary Details, Department Details 
b.Only the following Related Lists should be visible – Salary Information with the following 
columns in the said order (Salary Credit Date, Basic, HRA, Special Allowance, Total 
Earnings, Gross Salary, Mode of Payment) 
c. Layout the fields in 2 columns 


 Customize the Salary Page Layout to have the following 
a. Organize the Salary page into the following sections – Payment Details, Salary Deduction 
Details, Bank Details, Salary Credit Details 
b. Layout the fields in 2 columns 

 Customize the Department Page Layout to have the following 
a. Organize the Department page into the following sections – Department Details 
b. Layout the fields in 1 column 

 Create List Views to display the following 
- All Active Employees (First Name, Last Name,  Designation, Date of Joining, Last Working 
Day, ) 
- All Employees on Notice Period 
- All Inactive Employees 

  Validation rule : 
- If notice period is checked to true, resignation date cannot be null. 
- Last working date cannot be greater than joining date. 
- Bank Account number once set cannot be changed. 
- Bank account details cannot be null. 

   Create 2 record types for an employee – Technical and Non-Technical. Depending upon the selection of 
the type of employee selected, the list of values in the Skills or Expertise fields should change 
a. Technical – C#, Java, Apex, Salesforce, Force.com, QA, Dot Net, PHP (All values should 
appear in an alphabetically sorted order.) 
b. Non-Technical – Project Management, Operations, HR, Project Planning (All values 
should appear in an alphabetically sorted order.) 




